Hey everyone, I'm Chris Crowe, campus pastor for Crossway Christian Church's Milford campus here in Southern New Hampshire, where our mission is all about practicing the way of Jesus together as we pursue God, build community, and unleash compassion.
We pray that what you hear today will help you experience God more deeply and live more and more like Jesus.
It's good to see all of you.
It just feels like forever since we've been together as Luke was mentioning.
It's hard to miss a Sunday.
because being together is important for the fellowship of the saints.
And so I just want to mention to you before we get into God's Word, and I'm excited to get into God's Word with you.
Before we do that, this time of the year can be a lot about disappointment too.
And we've been exalting Jesus and honoring Him and lifting high His name, and it's been an amazing advent with you.
But there also can be disappointment.
At least and I were supposed to go to Delaware to hang out with my family.
And we both got sick.
And so we were sick the whole time.
And so I'm incredibly contagious right now.
I just want you to know that.
And so I'm just kidding.
No, we were passed all of that.
I hope I'm contagious with the Holy Spirit.
I pray I'm contagious with my Christianity.
But there can be disappointment at this time of the year too.
And I don't know if anybody had faced some of that.
I had to work through some stuff.
Like I thought I was going to Delaware be with my mom, my dad, my brothers, and just enjoy that time together.
And it didn't end up happening.
Does anybody understand disappointment?
Have you ever faced disappointment?
This time of the year can be like that.
Is there anybody that had faced some of that this past Christmas at all?
Raise your hand.
It's okay.
Jesus help us, Lord.
We come to You.
Yeah, we pray that You would help us to work through all of that and come to the other side and all of that.
The other thing I had during worship was not just disappointment that I wanted to mention before we get into God's Word, but also change.
How many people love change?
Raise your hand.
You just love it.
We had to talk more.
That's awesome.
I'm typically okay with change.
I went to Planet Fitness.
That's where we go.
Went in there.
They had taken a whole section of the machines that I had used and they got rid of them.
So I walked in there and I'm like, well, I'm going to do some of this, that and the other.
I'm familiar with.
And I said to the lady behind the desk, I said, what happened to this machine over here?
Oh, we got rid of all of that.
You remember curves?
You know, back in the day, well, I was all part of curves and I was never part of curves.
I remember the whole thing.
And so I was like thinking in my head, okay, I'm going to go to crunch.
That's what I'll do.
I'll go to Crunch then, or I'll go to, what's the other one, Hampshire Hills, up on the, I'll do that.
I was working through, I don't like change.
I was working through that.
And so they got rid of what I wanted, how I was using the machinery and stuff like that.
I said, do you have anything comparable?
And she goes, yeah, there's a machine over there.
I went over there, got on that machine, you know what?
It was actually better.
And I went back to tell her.
I said, because I wanted her to be encouraged, because I could see the look in her eyes when I said, hey, what happened to the machines?
I'm going to be one of those critics, right?
And so I went back and I said, you know what, change is good, isn't it?
And I actually like this machine better.
God's going to call all of us to more change in 2026.
That's how you grow.
You're never going to grow if you don't change.
So if you're resistant to change, you're probably the same kind of Christian you were a year ago and the year before that and the year before that.
And so just a little lesson on disappointment and change.
Are you ready to give me God's word?
You're like, please go, go, please.
We want to do that.
And so Lord Jesus, we just thank you for your word.
Holy Spirit, we know that you're the teacher.
You're going to show us what this word means.
Oh, it's such a good word, Lord, from you.
You speak to us.
You help us to hear you.
That's what you want to do.
You want to teach us something.
You want to show us something.
And we pray this in Jesus' name.
Have you ever heard the phrase timing is everything?
Right?
Timing is everything.
You may have thought it even said it out loud passing through a traffic light or maybe standing in line at Walmart.
I was in line not long ago, and I was thinking, I'm gonna, that's a great line, I'm gonna make it through here nice and quick, and all of a sudden I look towards the front of the line and wonder why it's not going very quickly, as I thought it would, and there was a sweet old lady, she must have been 115 years old, she was up there.
And all of a sudden she takes out the coupons, and I'm like, uh-oh, uh-oh, and then everybody starts looking at each other in line, because we're about 15 deep.
And so she takes, and she's going one at a time with the coupons, and I'm thinking, oh, timing is everything.
And then she took out her checkbook.
And I was like, maybe finding the perfect parking spot?
Timing is everything.
Or maybe finding that lump early.
We tried to capture time in a bottle.
Jim Croci saying that in the lyric.
Timing matters if you're a baseball pitcher, baker, or candlestick maker.
For some, on earth will be a long time.
And for others, it'll be just a short time.
Timing saved the kingdom.
You remember Mordecai said to his cousin, who?
Esther and Esther 414 and who knows whether you have not come to the kingdom for such a what?
Time is this.
Jesus wept over Jerusalem because they didn't understand timing, Luke 1944.
Jesus says because you did not know the time of your visitation.
Jesus was plotted against and pursued to be killed and he said in John 7.6, my time has not yet come.
In reference to the birth of Jesus, the apostle Paul said in Galatians chapter four, verse four, but when the fullness of time has come, God sent forth his son.
Here's the question, you'll see it on the screen.
Here's the big question, why did Jesus come to earth when he did?
When did Jesus come to earth when he did?
Let's conclude our series today, rediscovering Christmas.
It's been a joy to be with you.
with this series.
I've enjoyed it.
Here's what we've looked at so far.
I got a running list you'll see on the screen.
We've looked at the waiting, the anointing, the welcoming, the reclaiming, the restoring.
And now I want to look at with you at the timing.
The timing.
That's the title of the message.
The major mission and murder of Jesus had to happen when it did.
And we'll see three reasons why.
Number one, to disarm principalities.
Number two, to destroy powers.
And number three, to deliver people.
Number one, write this down if you wanna take notes.
Disarmed principalities, that's number one.
Why did Jesus come when he did?
Of all the characters we've seen in the Christmas story during our series, we have not spent any time looking at who, do you know?
King Herod.
It was known as Herod the Great.
Think about that just for a moment.
What a distinction.
You're gonna label yourself or allow a label or a characteristic of yourself.
as Herod the Great.
I couldn't imagine when I first got here meeting John Hubbard and John, John, what's your name?
Yeah, I am John the Great.
I'm going to be going up to Neil Gorman saying, hey, what's your name?
I am Neil the Great.
I mean, we would think, you know, probably need a little bit of counseling, right?
Take your Bible and go to Colossians chapter one.
Colossians chapter one, you're thinking, is Herod in the book of Colossians?
I want you to go to the first chapter of Colossians.
And we'll get there eventually.
Why did Jesus come to earth when He did?
All right, I'm going to go history channel on you, right?
We talked a little bit about that two weeks ago, history channel.
Some of you are good for that.
Some of you are not so good.
You're changing the channel right now in your mind.
I can see it.
You're going to ESPN.
You're going to HGTV.
You want to go to the cooking.
No, no.
You're going to stay with me.
History channel.
OK, there's a reason for this.
I think you would all agree that it's good and right.
to disarm a violent person who is coming against us with some form of weapon.
True?
Did you see where the shooter, there was something in the news quite a while ago, maybe a couple of months ago, and there was a shooter, and somebody, a bystander, came and disarmed the shooter.
It was really quite amazing to see that.
What has not been agreed upon through the years is what is known as disarmament.
Disarmament.
In the military and on a world scale, this would be the reduction or limiting of or even abolishing of nuclear weapons, primarily.
Peace conferences emerged in and around and after World War I, treating such as Vesal, disarmed Germany.
JFK said this, President Kennedy in 1961, quote, the intention to challenge the Soviet Union, not to an arms race, but to a peace race,
to advance together step by step, stage by stage, until general and complete disarmament has been achieved."
End quote.
Again, the debate has been ongoing over these issues all the way down to our own day, like movements such as defending or defending, defunding the police.
Hope it would be defending the police.
This isn't a message to answer these issues, but to look at our first point from a supernatural and spiritual perspective.
As there is disarmament in the natural, so there is in the spiritual.
Follow me on this.
As the militaries of the world have their hierarchies and strategies for battle, so doesn't God in his angelic force, and so doesn't Satan in his angelic force.
What is biblical and spiritual disarmament?
When we say to disarm principalities, what do we mean?
Ephesians 6-12, Paul said, for we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against what?
Do you remember?
Principality.
Some versions use the word rulers, right?
Principalities were regions ruled over by princes.
Keep this in mind as we get closer looking at King Herod.
Or Herod the Great.
Paul's using the word to refer specifically to demons, princes of the dark world.
We know Satan is the ultimate prince of the ruler of the darkness of this world.
John 12 31 says he is the ruler of this world.
Let's ask a question.
Who is the prince of demons?
We get a clue of this when we see a confrontation in Matthew chapter 12 23 to 24 between Jesus and the Pharisees.
Jesus heals the demon possessed man and the people watching were amazed.
The Pharisees said Jesus did it by the power of who?
Beels above.
The Jews had changed that from Baal's abub to Beal's abub.
What an ultimate slanderer's thing to say, to say that Jesus did that by the power of Baal.
To slander means Diabolos, that's the word for it, means devil or demon.
This tells us where religious leaders come from, whether they're Pharisees or Sadducees or religious leaders today or religious people today.
We know demons and principalities can oppress, demonize, and even possess people.
How about Herod the Great?
Who was this guy that played such a big role in the Christmas story?
Remember, I'm going history channel on you.
You're going to see some people up on the screen here.
They're hopefully not in your family Christmas picture.
because if I came over your house and I looked up on that mantle of that fireplace and all of a sudden I saw your Christmas card with all of your family and I saw some of these rascals in there.
I'd be thinking, whoa, okay, that's interesting.
I want to get out of there.
So let's do a little trivia here.
Anybody know who the first guy on the left is?
What was it?
Polepot.
Yeah?
Evil.
Not nice, not good, right?
Second guy in.
That's Velod the Impaler.
Not a nice guy.
Double cross, you get a spear in the chest.
Velod the Impaler, Prince of Romania, a long time ago, you can tell, right?
Next guy in.
Right, another one.
And then, of course, the most familiar probably on the end there.
Okay, I want you to think about this.
I want you to think about Hitler is a nice guy comparative to Herod.
Does that put any perspective there?
Let me give you a character reference for Herod the Great.
Here's some qualities of Herod.
Shrewd, a tyrant, clever, manipulative, evil, insecure, murderer, liar, barbaric, and prideful.
Just to name a few.
He was known not so much for his virtue, but because he could build things.
I have some of these things that he had built up on the screen.
One of them is Masada.
If you're familiar with Old Testament history and the fort that was built on top of this mountain called Masada.
To the right of that is Herodium.
Herodium is a man-made mountain that Herod the Great built.
They had found his, where he was buried.
I think it was 1987.
Archaeologists had discovered where Herod the Great was buried or in the side of Herodium.
then probably the most significant build that Herod the Great ever achieved was the Second Temple.
In fact, if you go to Jerusalem, some of those stones, they're called Herod stones.
I mean, they're huge, you know, and they're still, those are the stones that when he was in that building project, putting together the Second Temple.
When was that temple destroyed?
Do you remember?
70 AD.
Herod was a builder.
Herod did things that were great.
This is where he gets his name.
Great, because of being a builder, but not because of any kind of character inside of him.
He was an evil man of massive proportions.
But I want for our first point to focus in on the history and religious connections that Herod has, how he related to his ancestry in a spiritual way.
This is important.
Follow your history.
I usually ask people, where's your history?
What's your dad?
Was your mom a Christian?
Was your grandpa?
Yeah, my grandpa was a pastor, you know, or whatever.
You go back into your ancestry and you can see a lot about the spiritual pedigree of your life.
I wanted to do that with Herod a little bit to understand where this man was coming from.
Herod was related to, and then the ancestry of Esau, who became the Edomites.
If you know anything about the Edomites, friend or foe of the people of God?
Friend?
Yes?
No, foe of the people of God.
Herod was the godfather of what was known as the Herodian dynasty, which descended from the Edomites.
And the Edomites religious beliefs and religious centered around Baal worship.
Now, stay with me.
Baal is the longstanding enemy of God.
And I believe that Baal is the prince of demons.
The principalities that Paul's referencing in Ephesians is led by this prince.
So when we look at why Jesus came when he did, it was to disarm this prince.
Manifesting in and through King Herod.
It was a battle of cosmic proportions.
This is why we see Herod trying to destroy Jesus in Matthew chapter two, verse 16.
This isn't just an earthly king who has had some issues of insecurity and threat and pride.
It's beyond that.
It's into the realm of principalities, powers and cosmic proportions.
What he's doing here, what Jesus is doing is defeating Baal.
He's disarming Baal.
Now it's culminating in climaxing here in this supernatural confrontation.
I want you to look at Colossians chapter one.
Colossians 1, Paul writes this amazing letter.
He's going to talk about preeminence of Christ.
He's going to talk about Jesus being exalted.
He is the exalted one.
Keep that in mind when we think about Herod and how he thought and being ruler and really prince.
So Colossians chapter 1, I'm just going to look at a couple of verses in chapter 1 verse 15.
Notice what Paul says.
He is the image of the invisible ground.
Who is the he?
It's Jesus.
He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation.
And for by him, all things were created in heaven and earth, visible and invisible.
He starts with the created order.
He starts with who created everything.
Could Herod is much of a builder as he was?
Could he say that about himself, yes or no?
There's no way.
Do you know some of the Jews started to believe that Herod might have been the Messiah?
That's how distorted and deluded.
that some of that was going on at that time because he was so great, so powerful that they started to get this delusion and start to believe these things about Herod.
Well, it goes on here in the text.
Not only were all things created in heaven and earth, visible and invisible, were it thrones or dominions or what?
Rulers or authorities.
All things were created through him and for him.
Now, what this is talking about is not just earthly authorities.
Not just earthly rulers.
Not just righteous earthly rulers.
This is talking about unrighteous earthly rulers and authorities.
But it's beyond that.
It's in the supernatural that Jesus has come.
He is the preeminent one over all of them as well.
That's important to understand.
Because when a principality comes against you, which will, and I'm going to explain some of that, you got to know that that principality has been disarmed.
that Jesus is preeminent, verse 17.
And he is before all things Paul said.
And in him, all things hold together.
Anybody ever thought you're losing your marbles?
You're losing your mind?
I'm just being honest with you.
I thought that at times through the highest stress levels of, do you know where a lot of that comes from?
A lot of that comes from the supernatural.
A principality is attacking your mind.
Trying to make you think you can't trust God.
Make you think that you're not going to be put together and you're going to lose it.
You're going to be institutionalized and all of that.
That's a principality.
You're not going to go to a psychologist and get that fixed ultimately.
Can they help you?
Yes.
I'm not minimizing all of that.
But what needs to be broader and bigger than all of that is the supernatural and the spiritual component to all of this.
You are being attacked by a principality.
But you have to understand that that principality has been disarmed.
You've got to go there.
Paul talks about the preeminence of Jesus.
Chapter two, if you'll notice there, chapter two, verse six, very important.
Paul moves, therefore, as you receive Christ Jesus, the Lord so walk in him.
Here's the application.
Here's how we live out, rooted and built up in Jesus, verse seven, and established in the faith, just as you were taught, abounding in thanksgiving.
See to it that no one takes you captive by philosophy and empty deceit, according to human tradition, according to the elemental spirits of this world and not according to Christ.
for in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily.
And you have been filled in him who is the head of all rule and authority.
You've been filled with him by the spirit over all rule and authority.
This is brilliant.
This is unbelievable.
For in him the whole fullness of dwells bodily, filled up in him, verse 11, in him you also have been circumcised, circumcision not made without hands.
My heart has been circumcised before the Lord.
Putting off the body of this flesh by the circumcision of Christ?
This is amazing.
Truly amazing.
I want to skip the owner down a little bit further than this.
He goes and says, you were dead in trespasses, in the circumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, made us alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses.
Verse 16, therefore, let no one pass judgment on you and question food or drink in regard to festival, new moons.
Start talking about all these things that people were bringing in, all of this to try to make Jesus look less and not exalted and preeminent.
And it's all wrong.
It's all wrong.
Hold fast to the head, Paul said in verse 19, for whom the whole body nourished and knit together through its joints and ligaments, grows with growth that is from God.
If with Christ you died to the elemental spirits of the world, why as you were still alive in the world do you submit to regulations, do not handle, do not touch, do not... referring to things that all parishes they are used according to human precepts and teachings, these have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-made religion and asceticism and severity to the body, but they have no value in stopping the indulgence of the flesh, then he moves on and he talks about putting on the new self beyond that.
What did God do in Jesus?
He disarmed principalities.
He disarmed them.
I'm gonna look at number two with you.
Destroy power, powers, plural.
Destroy powers.
Ephesians chapter 6 verse 12, but against rulers, notice Ephesians 6 12, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers, plural.
I'm gonna come back to that.
Why did Jesus come?
when he did, and what does it mean?
The Apostle John said in 1 John 3.8, for this purpose, the Son of God was manifested that he might destroy the works of the devil.
What are the works of the devil?
Let me give you a running list of what some of these, and there's a myriad of them we could list.
Territorial oppression.
There are certain areas, maybe Milford.
I've been in cities where there's territorial oppression.
You walk into that city and you know there's something very unusual going on in the demonic realm.
Northampton, Massachusetts was the first one I ever discerned.
That was early on in my Christian age.
I walked over the city line, the city limits, and all of a sudden the Spirit of God said there's evil in here, and then he showed me what the evil was.
That would be territorial oppression.
Some of that could land in some people's genealogy.
Some of these, what do they call that when it's a sin of
I'm drawing a blank on that word Generational sin.
Thank you whoever said that.
Thank you generational Here's another one depression drugs porn addictions hopelessness suicide trafficking greed deception murder lies
cults and isms, pride, rebellion, fear, and on the works.
These are the works.
Jesus came when he did to destroy works.
Some of you are thinking, this is the way I'm gonna be all of my life.
No, no, no.
That doesn't have to be that way.
When somebody puts a label on you, you want Jesus to put a different label on you.
That's what you want.
But some of you are gonna get locked into this place, you're gonna think you're defeated for the rest of your earthly days.
Jesus came when he did to destroy these works.
What works have you been struggling with for years, maybe?
Go to Romans chapter eight.
Romans chapter eight.
Now when we think of power, we think of energy, force, and strength.
and what Paul and John have in mind are demonic spirits, all organized and deployed to bring devastation to people, to ultimately prevent redemption.
Herod is oppressed, he is demonized, and he, I believe, is possessed by a power.
Not power in energy, not power in building capacity, but power in demonic prints, who has overwhelmed him and overcome him.
The aim is destroying the possibility of redemption.
To kill the baby Jesus means the cross never happens.
Right?
Remember the enemy manifests in and through people.
Even Peter had this happen to him in Matthew chapter 16 verse 23.
Jesus said to Peter what?
Do you remember?
Get behind me.
Who?
Satan.
Has anybody ever been used of Satan here?
Raise your hand.
Do you think you have?
Just three of us.
Really?
Okay.
Oh, it's happened to everybody.
Anytime flesh manifests inside of you, whether that's lust or pride or selfishness, whatever that may be, you know it's behind that, principalities and powers.
Romans chapter eight, I want to look at verse 37, just a couple of verses.
I'm going to highlight something here.
and what the apostle Paul says to the Roman church.
What did I say?
Romans chapter eight, right?
37 down to verse 39.
Now all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us.
Hallelujah.
We are more than conquerors.
We're not just conquerors.
We're more than conquerors.
We are super conquerors.
That's what that word means there.
Verse 38, for I am sure that neither death nor life nor angels nor rulers.
Interesting.
Rulers, earthly rulers, yes.
Heavenly and spiritual rulers, whether righteous or unrighteous, yes.
Same thing.
He's talking about all of it.
There were things present, there were things to come, nor what?
You missed it.
Oh, you missed it.
You know why?
Because you're not looking at your Bible.
I'm just saying, bring your Bible.
Look at the Bible.
Don't look at just me.
Because if you're looking at me, you're going to think, this is my message.
I'm trying to give you what the text of Scripture says.
That's different.
I don't want you relying on me.
I want you relying on the text.
You missed it.
Look down.
If you have a Bible, look at it.
If you have it on your phone, look at it there.
I don't care.
Nor powers.
End of verse 38.
Notice that.
nor height, nor depth, nor anything else, and all of creation will be able to separate you from the love of God in Christ Jesus.
You know who's gonna try to separate you from the love of Christ?
Who's gonna do that?
Yes!
Principalities and powers are gonna do that.
You stay locked up in that addiction, whatever it is, porn, eating, spending, gambling, whatever that thing is, that's gonna hinder this.
You're not gonna understand the love of God shed abroad in Christ Jesus.
What I want you to do is I want you to get to the place and maybe you're there and that's great if you are, but there's some might not be there yet.
And I know it's taken me a long time.
And this past week when I dug into this, I'm like, Lord, I know that you disarm principalities.
That's what I was saying to the Lord.
I know that you've disarmed principalities and I know that you've destroyed powers.
You know how helpful that has been this week to work that stuff through my mind and my heart and to verbalize that.
I want that for you.
Maybe you haven't taken that approach with some of these things that you've battled with for maybe years and years and years.
I got some statistics on the screen if you could bring those up.
29 million is the first stat.
29 million.
Guess what that stands for?
People that battle with this in our country alone.
What do you think it is?
What is it?
It is depression.
Yeah.
29 million people.
Christian, non-Christian, struggle with depression.
I know that I've battled with that, honestly, at times.
Whether it's clinical or chronic or circumstantial, I mean, 29 million people.
I pray that if you struggle with depression in here, that we're just going to say to that principality, that power, you have no place here.
You're saying, can that actually stop in my life?
I really believe it can.
I have to believe that.
How about 47 million?
Any ideas?
In our country alone, we're talking about powers here.
What do you think?
Alcoholism.
People, men and women.
And even some young people battling with alcoholism.
How about this next number?
That's a big number, huh?
What is that number?
Do you know?
That's 13.
Was it billion?
That's all surrounding the porn industry.
How much money is generated?
And that's a low number.
It goes as high as maybe 97 billion, they say.
Is that a power?
That's an evil power.
Jesus came when he did to destroy powers.
The power of our adversities and our adversaries try to rule over us as Herod did Judea.
The power in them fails miserably in the gospel.
We see Paul talk about this in Romans chapter six and seven.
Let me just add, this is positional destroying.
Like positionally disarmed and destroyed.
in the ultimate sense.
But practically speaking, some of you are thinking, but I still struggle with porn.
I still struggle with alcohol, or eating, or spending, or gambling.
What is that all about?
That's the practical.
The way to live in that victory, two ways, obedience.
We're gonna have to obey the Lord.
We're gonna have to submit to His ways.
And then number two, get a fresh feeling of the Holy Spirit.
Positionally, disarmed and destroyed.
Practically, you're gonna have to work that out.
Why?
Why couldn't God just take it all away?
Because your faith has to develop.
Because you have to lean into the Lord.
Because you have to hear His voice.
That's why.
What powers has been trying to take you captive to steal your joy and peace, to bring fear and doubt into your life?
Number three, and finally, to deliver people.
Deliver people.
Now when we hear the word deliverance, we think of a fringe and extreme ministry that we remember seeing on maybe Trinity Broadcasting Network.
You know that network with Paul and Jan Crouch.
You remember the PTL and the big hair and all of the makeup.
Or maybe you think of Benny Hinn.
Or maybe Oral Roberts.
When we look at the ministry of Jesus, we see many people delivered from demons and disease.
Many Christians have landed in some various camps in this kind of ministry that Jesus did.
Deliverance ministry.
It's in the Bible.
This is what Jesus did.
He delivered people.
Some people say that that ministry stopped in the early church.
It was meant for them and not so much for today.
The miracles and healings of Jesus, listen, they were to validate who He was.
I know the camps.
I've studied both camps.
You gotta land somewhere.
I haven't landed on, it's all done.
You're not going to see deliverance anymore.
It's all in the Old Testament.
It's maybe in the New Testament right there.
And then when the scriptures were finished, so to speak, and then all of this stuff is supposed to stop.
I don't land in that camp.
I believe that if you have something going on right now, whether it's demonization or I don't think it's going to be possession, I think that's rare.
I think you can be delivered right now, right now.
You're saying, do I need to go to five years of counseling and count,
That could be helpful.
I'm not discounting that.
But if you get a laying on of hands, could manifest in some laying on of hands in oil, it could be a group of people coming around you even after church today, and you got something going on, you can be delivered today.
I believe that.
What does it mean to deliver?
Let me just explain this.
I used to deliver.
I mean, I was asked to go to a deliverance ministry one day.
Pastor said, you want to come to a deliverance meeting?
I said, what's that all about?
He goes, come and check it out.
I said, all right, I'll go check it out.
And there was a lady there that was supposedly demon possessed.
And so I heard a lot of screaming, a lot of wailing going on.
I mean, it was wild.
That's what he said to me.
He goes, what did you think afterwards?
I said, that was pretty wild.
That's all I could think of.
Unfamiliar with that.
Others with drug issues and addictions and things like that.
What does it mean to deliver?
I'm going to try to do this in a way that I can understand.
I hope it helps you.
I used to deliver FedEx, right?
And so I have a picture of a truck.
It's not my truck, but I have memories of delivering.
I'm going to try to show you something here.
I was delivering up in Ashby, Massachusetts years and years ago.
You're saying, where's Ashby?
I don't know.
I mean it was just out in the middle of nowhere.
And so they said to take this package I was the kind of guy that I was like okay I'm gonna take it to every customer that I have.
And so I got in my truck and it's winter and I'm going up into wherever Ashby and all these back roads and all of a sudden my truck just couldn't make it up this little incline because of the ice and I got stuck and I started turning sideways and I didn't know what to do.
I got out of the truck and I'm just panicking.
I'm panicking.
You know, and I'm trying to pull the truck with my own strength.
You should have seen me.
I was like, and the thing started moving.
I couldn't believe it.
I was like, is this actually moving?
It was for about three inches.
And then it stopped again.
Got all the garbage I could find out of the woods, cardboard and put it underneath the tires and everything.
And I could not get myself unstuck.
I could not deliver myself.
What did I have to do?
I had to call the terminal.
I had to give the phone call.
I'm stuck.
Would you come and help me?
And I remember that big tow truck coming up the road there and asked me, hooking up my truck and pulling me out.
Some of you are going to have to call.
You're saying, I don't want to call.
I didn't want to call.
Pride in my heart.
Some of you want deliverance in your life?
You're going to have to call somebody.
I would encourage call God, but you might have to call another person.
You might have asked for some help.
Are you willing to do that?
You're saying, I don't know if I can do that.
They're going to know my junk.
They're going to know my personal business.
All right.
You stay wherever you are.
You'll stay stuck.
You could be delivered today if you would just open up your mouth and call.
Now God might do it just supernaturally and miraculously without you calling.
He might.
I can remember getting stuck another time.
You're saying, what kind of a driver was he?
Did he not know how to drive?
It was the elements.
Come on.
And so I got stuck again and I'm on this side road and that time I did call on the name of the Lord.
Not the first time.
I got mad.
I tried to do it in my own strength.
It wasn't happening.
This other time I did call on the name of the Lord.
I said, Lord, would you please help me to be delivered
out of this.
Once you know it, a truck comes down the road.
It was a garbage truck.
And the guy pulls up next to me and he goes, hey, do you need to get pulled out of that ditch?
And I said, yeah, would you help me?
He goes, I got a big chain.
I'll hook it up to your truck and pull you right out.
Then he said this.
He goes, it's kind of strange.
I wasn't supposed to come down this road today.
God wants to deliver some people still today.
He wants to rescue you.
This is why Jesus came when he did.
Still doesn't.
I still believe that with all of my heart.
Now, deliverance can be multifaceted.
It can be delivered from circumstances, satanic attack, enemy who's coming against you to destroy your reputation, deliver you from temptations and trials.
God delivers from depression, deception.
He delivers from a disease.
He can do it from a hopeless thought process that you have an addiction, an anger, stronghold.
A son or daughter brought back from unbelief.
He delivers.
He does deliver.
This is why he came.
People are delivered from darkness into his marvelous light and from hell to heaven.
Hallelujah.
I'm going to show you one passage to illustrate all three points and then I'm going to conclude.
Matthew chapter 14.
You got to see this.
All three points in one story.
This is talking about John the Baptist and all of that was surrounding his life and his death.
You'll see that Herod is brought up.
It's not the same Herod.
It's one of his sons, Herod the Tetrarch.
Herod's already dead by now.
Herod the Great.
He's dead.
Now it's his family.
And a lot of that was passed on.
The Herodian dynasty and all of that was passed on.
And he got Herod in verse one at the time.
That Herod the Tetrarch heard about the fame of Jesus.
Chapter 14 verse one, Matthew.
And he said to his servants, this is John the Baptist.
He has been raised from the dead.
And then they went into this whole thing, you know, and trying to figure this out.
Verse 3, for Herod had seized John, bound him and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias.
Isn't it amazing to see Herod show up all over, even in the woman's name?
It's like, what is going on with this family?
There's so much corruption going on in the Herodian dynasty, it's unbelievable.
And so you have Herodias' brother, Philip's wife, because John had been saying to him, it is not lawful for you to have her.
And though he wanted to put him to death, he feared the people because they held him to be a prophet.
But when Herod's birthday came, the daughter of Herodias, Salome, is her name, danced before the company, danced in what?
That's dirty dancing.
That's what that's talking about.
This isn't the waltz or something, you know, the Chamba Wamba.
I don't know what they call them.
But this is like, this is seductive is what's going on.
in verse 7, so that he promised with an oath to give her whatever she might ask, prompted by her mother.
Man, that's wickedness.
There's wickedness here.
Remember, principalities' powers, principalities' powers.
That's all that's behind all of this.
It's evil.
It's demonic in nature.
Give me the head of John the Baptist here on the platter, and the king was sorry because of his oaths and his guests, and he commanded it to be given.
He sent and had John beheaded in the prison, and his head was brought on a platter and given to the girl.
And she brought it to her mother and the disciples came and took the body and buried it.
And they went and told Jesus, I couldn't imagine just being there, all of that pandemonium, all of that was going on.
It's just an awful, awful period of time, but still under the sovereignty of the Lord somehow, right?
Let me show you some other verses here.
Of course, there's a miracle feeding the 5,000.
We won't look at that next.
Jesus walks on water.
We'll skip by that.
Go over to chapter 15 and verse 28, 28.
Let me get a running start with you.
Verse 21, Jesus went away from there and withdrew to the district of Tyre and Sidon.
I'm in verse 21 of chapter 15.
And behold, a Canaanite woman from that region came out and was crying, Canaanite, don't miss this.
This is interesting.
What was the God of the Canaanites?
Anybody know?
Bail.
We're going back to the same principality, the same Prince of Demons.
And if you want to trace it, you go even further back to the beginning of time,
All the way to our present moment, you're going to see the same prince is at work in various ways, not just globally, not just nationally, but personally, personally.
A Canaanite woman from that region came out was crying, have mercy on me, oh Lord.
Son of David, my daughter is severely oppressed by a demon.
But he did not answer her a word.
And his disciples came and begged him, saying, send her away, for she was crying after us.
And he answered, I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
But she came and knelt before him, saying, Lord, help me, help me.
And he answered, it is not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs.
You remember this story.
But did you know that it was connected to a principality in power?
Maybe you didn't look at it quite like that.
And I didn't either for a long, long time until recently.
And then He heals.
It's an amazing, oh, woman, verse 28, great is your faith.
Be it done to you as you desire, and her daughter was healed instantly.
Hallelujah.
Jesus heals many from there.
He walked beside the Sea of Galilee, verse 29.
He went up on a mountain, sat there.
Great crowds came to Him, bringing with Him the lame, the blind, the crippled, the mute, and many others.
And they put them at His feet, and He healed them.
so that the crowd wondered when they saw the mute speaking, the crippled healthy, and the lame walking, and the blind singing, and they glorified the God of Israel.
This is incredible.
Chapter 16, I'm going to close with this.
Verse 1, Pharisees and Sadducees came, were they happy about it all?
No.
And test them.
They were trying to test them, and asked them to show them a sign from heaven.
Of course, you know the rest of that down into that section there.
And I'm going to close with 21 down to verse 23.
21.
Verse 21, from that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem, suffer many things from the elders and chief priests.
Of course you're going to suffer from them because they're religious, because Baal, the prince of demons, is behind it all, trying to stop Jesus, trying to rid redemption from ever happening.
And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him, saying, Far be it from you, Lord, I mentioned this.
This shall never happen to you.
But he turned and said to Peter, get behind me Satan.
How is it that Jesus is always looking beyond?
See, listen, you gotta look beyond.
Some of you are so stuck in the natural that you're not in the supernatural.
God is wanting to show us things that are not in this realm, they're in the next realm, they're beyond.
This takes discernment, this takes incredible discernment.
Some of you are gonna go through things that are horrific and hard and debilitating and it's gonna make you feel like you cannot go on.
But I'm telling you it's in that season that God's gonna show you things about himself and about his kingdom that you would never have gotten if you had not gone through what you're going through.
So hold on.
Keep leaning in.
Keep listening.
Keep seeking.
But see beyond.
Too many Christians, I talked to them and they were thinking natural.
They think horizontal.
Where's the verticality?
Where's like, wow, I can see things now.
I can see things and I can hear things that I couldn't hear before.
Most of that comes through suffering.
And what you're going through, I understand.
But I promise you on the other side of that, you're going to be like Job, I have heard of you by the hearing of the ear, what did he say?
But now my eye, what, sees you.
You're going to see God.
That's who you're going to see.
Thanks for listening to